### What happens when you run a container?

Either by using the `docker` binary or via the API, the Docker client tells the Docker daemon to run a container.

    $ docker run -i -t ubuntu /bin/bash
    

Let’s break down this command. The Docker client is launched using the`docker` binary with the `run` option telling it to launch a new container. The bare minimum the Docker client needs to tell the Docker daemon to run the container is:

- What Docker image to build the container from, here `ubuntu`, a base Ubuntu image;
- The command you want to run inside the container when it is launched, here `/bin/bash`, to start the Bash shell inside the new container.

So what happens under the hood when we run this command?

In order, Docker does the following:

- **Pulls the `ubuntu` image:** Docker checks for the presence of the`ubuntu` image and, if it doesn’t exist locally on the host, then Docker downloads it from [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/). If the image already exists, then Docker uses it for the new container.
- **Creates a new container:** Once Docker has the image, it uses it to create a container.
- **Allocates a filesystem and mounts a read-write *layer*:** The container is created in the file system and a read-write layer is added to the image.
- **Allocates a network / bridge interface:** Creates a network interface that allows the Docker container to talk to the local host.
- **Sets up an IP address:** Finds and attaches an available IP address from a pool.
- **Executes a process that you specify:** Runs your application, and;
- **Captures and provides application output:** Connects and logs standard input, outputs and errors for you to see how your application is running.