run

-i 交互运行

-t 打开容器终端

-d 后台运行容器

docker logs <containerid> 查看后台运行容器的输出

- `docker ps` - Lists containers.
- `docker logs` - Shows us the standard output of a container.
- `docker stop` - Stops running containers.

大写的P参数

$ docker run -d -P training/webapp python app.py

The `-P` flag is new and tells Docker to map any required network ports inside our container to our host.

小写的p参数

    $ docker run -d -p80:5000 training/webapp python app.py

This would map port 5000 inside our container to port 80 on our local host.

If you have been using a virtual machine on OS X, Windows or Linux, you’ll need to get the IP of the virtual host instead of using localhost. You can do this by running the `docker-machine ip your_vm_name` from your command line or terminal application, for example:

    $ docker-machine ip my-docker-vm
    192.168.99.100

In this case you’d browse to `http://192.168.99.100:49155` for the above example.

保存一个容器状态 创建一个新镜像

    $ docker commit -m "Added json gem" -a "Kate Smith" \
    0b2616b0e5a8 ouruser/sinatra:v2
    4f177bd27a9ff0f6dc2a830403925b5360bfe0b93d476f7fc3231110e7f71b1c
    

Here you’ve used the `docker commit` command. You’ve specified two flags: `-m` and `-a`. The `-m` flag allows us to specify a commit message, much like you would with a commit on a version control system. The `-a`flag allows us to specify an author for our update.

一个镜像不应该超过127个镜像层

**Note:** An image can’t have more than 127 layers regardless of the storage driver. This limitation is set globally to encourage optimization of the overall size of images.

给镜像添加一个标签

    docker tag5db5f8471261 ouruser/sinatra:devel

The `docker tag` command takes the ID of the image, here`5db5f8471261`, and our user name, the repository name and the new tag.

查看容器的网络状态

If you inspect your `my-bridge-network` you’ll see it has a container attached. You can also inspect your container to see where it is connected:

    $ docker inspect --format=&#39;{{json .NetworkSettings.Networks}}&#39;  db
    {"bridge":{"EndpointID":"508b170d56b2ac9e4ef86694b0a76a22dd3df1983404f7321da5649645bf7043","Gateway":"172.17.0.1","IPAddress":"172.17.0.3","IPPrefixLen":16,"IPv6Gateway":"","GlobalIPv6Address":"","GlobalIPv6PrefixLen":0,"MacAddress":"02:42:ac:11:00:02"}}
    